# Neutrino Scattering KU REU Workshop
*Problem outlined by Dr. Dave Z. Besson, Physics Professor at the University of Kansas. Produced as part of work in the Summer 2023 KU Physics and Astronomy REU Program.*

-----
This scenario analyzes a radio signal produced in antarctic ice from a neturino detection event. A high energy neutrino has an astronomically small probability to interact with a given particle. A common description is that a neutrino could be expected to pass through a lightyear of lead without interacting with a single atom. Neutrino detectors in Antarctica use a huge ice sheet to act as a detector surface. If a high-energy neutrino interacts with a molecule of ice, the collision will generate a spray of particles which will produce Cherenkov radiation. This radiation can then be observed by a receiver. This problem investigates how ice can absorb and re-radiate the signal, potentially producting a problematic amount of noise. This phenomenon is known as volume scattering.

A receiver placed in ice will receive a signal from a transmitter 100 meters away. The transmitter's signal will fall off as 1/r. If the source has some initial amplitude $A_0$, then the amplitude of the signal without any attenuation at a point S at distance $r_1$ will be $\frac{A_0}{r_1}$. Then, say that that point, the signal is scattered to the receiver an additional distance $r_2$ away. Following the above logic, the final signal received is then $A = \frac{A_0}{r_1r_2}$. However, there is one additional factor which has been neglected here, which is the phase. The amplitude of a wave at a point a distance $r$ from the receiver will be $\frac{A_0}{r}cos(kr)$, where $k$ is the wavenumber $\frac{2\pi}{\lambda}$. Here, the wavelength is chosen to be 1 meter.

To find the total amplitude of the signal at the receiver, then one should integrate over the volume from the transmitter to the receiver plus a buffer zone of 10 meters. So, integrate over a sphere centered between the transmitter and receiver with a diameter of 120 meters. In this scenario, the differential volume element must be appreciably smaller than the wavelength so that the phase is the same within the region.

The included notebook has code which sets up the problem and produces a plot of the amplitude observed by the receiver as a function of time after the initial signal is received.